### Where's My Bus
> Where's my bus is an app in development currently, this app is being made to track busses and their locations on their respective routes. The app uses the users location to find the nearest bus stop and gather information for the user. The app will show the user what busses go to their current bus stop and what route the bus follows. The app uses the [Bus Open Data Service](https://www.bus-data.dft.gov.uk/) to gather information on the bus routes and the live busses on said routes. This information is sorted in the backend and then displayed on the frontend using API calls made for the project.
##### Backend Process
> First is collecting the data from the API with specific arguments and then going through each set of data to find the busses in the set and when it was updated. Once we get a list of the most up to date versions of each bus data we collect them from their respective .zip file and extract the .xml documents. Upon collecting the .xml document we convert them to JSON ready to be used for extracting the data we need. After the data has been collected we gather a list of all bus stops and the busses that go to them from the JSON files, this data will be converted to a csv and used for locating the users nearest bus stop. Data is then saved to S3 ready for the API calls we created to be able to extract the necessary data. 
##### Frontend Process
> The frontend will first ask the user for permission to use geolocation if its not already enabled. From here it will use an API call that uses the bus stops data we collected. Upon finding the users nearest bus stop it will display the bus stop name and busses that go to the stop. When a user clicks on a bus they will be redirected to the route page which displays the full route that is collected via an API call. 
##### Progress
> Currently this app is still in it's early phases of development and has only recently got what was listed above done. Going forward we will need to start using the live tracking data of the busses to find out the exact route the bus is on and display the correct route respectively on the page for the user. This data will enable us to find out what direction the bus is travelling in whether that be inbound or outbound, we can also gather the exact route the bus is on and information on what day it is. Another thing that is still in development is accounting for busses that have multiple files for tracking their routes. These files will be needed as they have specific things such as whether they are on a school day, school holiday or weekends. This information will be needed to make sure the correct information is displayed for the user. Once these hurdles are overcome we can then work on the frontend displaying the live bus on the route for the user to see. Another feature that will be added is the functionality to change the current stop the user is at, this will be needed in the cases where there is either too many bus stops nearby that cause tracking issues or in the case where they may want to check the stop they are going to. 
##### Tools Used
- [Bus Open Data Service](https://www.bus-data.dft.gov.uk/)
- AWS Lambda
- AWS S3
- Python
- AWS API Gateway
- React
